>> Scott Moss: Now if we wanted to make
changes to this and stuff like that,
so let's say I go into my app,
I wanna make a change.
I don't know,
I don't wanna change too much.
But let's say I go into the home page and
I want to put a period here for
some reason.
Okay, so now I commit this change.
Well, first of all, lemme get off main so
I can actually show this.
So I'll check out a new branch, a feature
branch, and I'll call this feature copy.
We're updating the copy.
I'll add that change back, cool.
Then I'll push this up.
Now we have this.
I'll open a PR to Main and
then we get this Vercel.
Automatically does some things,
so it starts adding some checks.
So a couple checks that it tries to do is,
typically when you deploy something,
there's usually like, you have staging,
you have production,
Vercel doesn't support a lot of that.
They actually just added a feature where
you can add custom environments now but
what they do instead
is they have previews.
You can change how the behavior works.
But by default, when I make a new PR
a pull requests into my main branch or
whatever branch you designate
as your main branch,
Vercel is going to deploy a ephemeral
preview version of that branch.
So in this case, it took the code
from this branch feature copy and
deployed it as a preview branch.
This is really great because if you are
responsible for reviewing this code, let's
say you're the team leader or whatever,
you're the one reviewing this PR.
You can go to the app and
actually see it, right?
It's not just like, show me
a screenshot or let's go through this.
No, I can just go to the app and
see your code running in a production
like environment to see what's happening.
So you can play around with it.
So you get that for free.
If I go click on it,
it'll take me to that preview branch.
Here it is.
Here's the URL for it.
I click on it.
It works.
This authentication right here just makes
sure that whoever's looking at this
preview branch has to be on
your Vercel team to see it.
Otherwise, anybody who had this
URL can go look at your preview,
which you probably don't want.
Then they have this thing right
here that you can click on and
it does a bunch of stuff.
You can leave comments.
So I can go in here and
like, no, don't do this.
Now people can see that
there's a comment here.
If I integrate it with Vercel's
feature flags, I can turn on and
off feature flags to see them here,
which is really cool.
They have a lot of stuff.
[LAUGH] I can share this
with someone on my team.
You can look at the Meta tags for SEO.
You can do performance type stuff.
There's a QR code for
something to go here.
They just thought of everything.
>> Speaker 2: You could like check mobile.
>> Scott Moss: You could check mobile,
yeah,
there you go,
I guess that's what it's good for, yeah.
You could even switch branches.
So if there's another branch which I don't
have, you can switch to that branch and
it'll load that version of that
site right here immediately.
So really, really, really cool.
And you get this, as you can see for
free, I'm not paying for
anything on my personal plan.
They want me to install
the Slack integration.
If someone comments something and tags
me in it, I'll get a Slack notification.
So it kinda thought of everything.
They also have like stuff for,
where is it at?
What's preview mode?
There should be a preview mode in here,
which is different than a preview deploy.
Where is it at?
I don't see it anymore.
They used to have like a preview mode and
that would be something you would have for
like headless CMSs.
Headless CMSs that had preview content.
You might want to see that preview
content on a preview branch.
So it's pretty cool.
So there we go.
We got the preview branch and
then you can test that out.
When it's ready to go, you can merge it.
So lemme go back to my GitHub here.
I didn't even know that it added a blocker
cuz those are unresolved comment.
I didn't know it did that.
>> Speaker 2: That's wild.
>> Scott Moss: That's really cool.
>> Speaker 2: What's that comment
that you added look like in here?
>> Scott Moss: It doesn't show you.
It just links you to where it is.
>> Speaker 2: What if you click on that,
does it like deep link to?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
it says go to feedback.
Yeah, there you go, yeah.
>> [LAUGH].
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] Wow.
Yeah, so I can resolve that and
I'm guessing that'll clean it up.
So let's go back.
Yeah, it does [LAUGH].
It's pretty nice [LAUGH].
It's pretty nice, I didn't know they
did that, that's really nice, yeah.
And then when I'm ready and
everything looks good,
I'll just merge this Pull request.
Actually, hold on.
Need to rebase and merge,
I don't ever merge, that's just gross.
And now it's gonna do another deploy.
It's gonna deploy that to production.
So if I go look at Vercel
here I go to Deployments,
it should be deploying right now.
It's deploying that code into production.
So pretty simple.
And then you get to branch off of all the
environment settings, all the settings for
deployment, you get to branch that off
depending on what environment you're in.
If I'm in settings,
I can add different environment.
Well, there's a custom environments, but
I can add different environment
variables for different environments.
They don't all have to be the same.
So right now I'm using that one
database URL for all my environments.
You probably wouldn't do that.
You would instead use a different
database URL for preview.
But here's the question,
if you've thought about it.
If the preview branches are ephemeral,
they spin up whenever a new PR comes.
How do you get a dynamic database
URL only for that preview?
Because if you think about it,
if I'm spinning up a preview version of
my app on every PR,
let's say I have 30 people on my team and
they're all just doing pull requests,
how do they all have access to
their own storage, their own database,
their own everything?
Well, that's why every modern database
today has branching on it just for
this purpose.
So if Neon has branching,
you can branch your database off.
They have integration with Vercel
that will create a branch for
your database whenever a preview
deployment is deployed.
And they'll add it in your
environment variables for you so
you don't have to do anything.
So does like planetscale, so
does pretty much every modern database
that I've used today has branching.
So you can associate a branch of your
database with a branch of your app,
AKA a preview.
They allow branching,
just empty database with a schema, but
also branching the data as well.
So if you wanna take all your prod data,
branch it,
basically essentially copy it
into another database instantly.
It doesn't take forever, it's instant.
And then apply that to a preview
build automatically, it'll do that.
So you're actually using real data on
a preview version of your app instantly
without having to do what
we had to do 10 years ago.
Just export a file from a database,
import it back, and
it could take forever or even worse,
just using Mock data and Seed data.
So it's really good.
And that's actually what
I do in production.
I use Neo, we branch on previews.
It branches the production
database over to the preview.
So when we're looking at the preview app,
it's with real data and
we use it very exclusively.
It works very well.
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
that should have deployed.
Looks like it did, it's good to go, cool.
Any questions on deployment?
>> Speaker 3: And this is all free?
>> Scott Moss: For this, yeah, I mean,
they're eventually gonna charge you
when you go past certain limits, right?
I don't know the exact
thing that they charge, but
let's say you had we have the API routes,
right?
Those API routes, I don't know,
a lot of people just start, you blow up,
you start getting 100,000 calls a day and
they're gonna charge you for that, right?
Pretty much anything that hits their
server, anything that server sites or
react server components, they're
eventually gonna start charging for that.
Now if you just built like a full
client app and only put it on Vercel,
you could probably get away with without
ever paying anything if you didn't want
any of the collaborative
features that they have.
Cuz a lot of the stuff you gotta pay for
is around collaboration as well.
Like feature flags,
they have like observability.
If you want like extra performance stuff
in here, they might charge you for it.
Or I think analytics, yeah, you gotta pay
for analytics if you want web analytics.
But they also have,
lemme see if I can find it.
Is it in here?
They have a platform
which you can install.
You can install like integrations.
They have like an integration thing.
So yeah, you can also
integrate with a lot of stuff.
And it's kinda like Heroku,
if you've ever used Heroku in the past.
But these are all standalone products
that you can sign up externally and
just add environment variables.
But a lot of them optionally have
integrations with Vercel, like Neon,
like I said, will automatically manage
those environment variables for you.
Upstash will automatically do stuff for
you.
And if you integrate on this side,
you don't ever have to log
into this app to manage it.
It's all like one unified bill.
It's all underneath one house,
you don't have to do anything.
So it's literally just like Heroku.
So they have tons of integrations
as well that you can do.
And then they've also partnered
with a lot of these companies, for
instance, if you go to storage,
you can literally just add Neon here.
Upstash a lot of the stuff
like Edge config and stuff.
I'm pretty sure this
is just using Upstash.
So they used to have their own,
yeah, right here.
No, that's not it.
They used to have their own Postgres
database which was literally just Neon.
So they'll do stuff like that but
they're trying to make it super easy for
you to just get started.
They even have like AI now, so
if you've ever looked at NPM,
install AI that's Vercel.
That's their SDK that is just
like a super simple AI SDK.
And they let you like use different
open-source models, different products
like Perplexity, you can just tie
in without having to go anywhere.
Replicate is a really good one.
So they're trying to give you everything
here without having to go everywhere.
Casting aside all these
amazing Vercel features,
do you have any tips or
insight into self-hosting Next.js apps?
I have, I don't recommend it.
Well, I'm not gonna say I don't
recommend it, lemme take that back.
Because up until recently,
in my opinion, Next.js or
Vercel was really,
really expensive, super expensive.
We got hit by traffic on one of our
iterations of our product cuz we were
doing like all these background
jobs with Upstash and
our bill went from nothing to $10,000.
And I was like, we don't even have that
many users and it's already $10,000.
It's not Vercel's fault,
it was just the way that those background
jobs work is like one job might
do 100 requests for one job.
And Next.js isn't built, assuming that
Next.js is like, that's 100 requests,
that's probably like 100 people.
So you're probably doing better and
you can afford this.
But no, that was just like one person
doing one job that did a hundred requests.
So it didn't scale the way that they
thought your business would be scaling if
you had that amount of traffic.
And they know this,
we've talked with them.
I actually know the first Vercel
team pretty well from the CEO down.
And they're aware of this.
And I mean they've done some pretty
interesting things to solve this.
They have like Fluid Compute now
which keeps your functions around.
So it's like the best of a server and
a serverless at the same time.
They have some other flags you can
turn on that really reduce your bill.
So I think because it actually
is pretty good on price now and
as far as like reliability, they've always
been better than Cloudflare in my opinion.
The cost you save on self-hosting
probably isn't worth it unless your
company's doing so well and
you're just like a really big company and
saving 5% is gonna be worth hundreds
of thousands of dollars then maybe.
But for most people who
are just building a thing and
they don't have that much traffic and
they're not constrained by a 10%
difference or whatever, I don't think so.
>> Speaker 3: And what about features
like middleware implementing that kind
of manually for
in a self-hosted environment?
>> Scott Moss: It's gonna
depend on where you deploy.
Most deployment platforms are aware
that Next.js is like the hot thing.
So they usually have somewhere
in the documentation whether or
not they support these features or not.
So you'd have to look at where
you're deploying and whether or
not they support that.
Next.js doesn't know where
it's gonna be deployed, right?
And Vercel isn't forcing everybody
to do the things that they're doing.
So it's gonna be up to those providers.
Competitive providers are definitely
trying to keep up with what Vercel is
doing because they realize a lot of their
business is gonna be folks using Next.js.
>> Speaker 4: So on this deployment,
the API endpoints that we
created are on that same domain.
Show there, right [CROSSTALK].
>> Scott Moss: Let's try it.
Let's grab the link address.
We'll go here.
Do a Get request,
get rid of the authorization.
Well, I guess I actually have
to do the thing [LAUGH] issue.
There we go,
we get a 401 from our middleware.
If I add the authorization back,
Get a 200 but
I don't have any issues,
so nothing came back.
Any other questions?
Nope, yep?
>> Speaker 5: Is there a way to scale
Next.js like make API routes run on
several instances for uptime?
>> Scott Moss: It's a great question.
That is the whole purpose of
Serverless is that you don't
have to vertically scale them
because they spin up and
run and
shut down when you don't need them.
So you don't have to think
about how to scale them.
It's not like a server that's
constantly on in which you need to
think about the resources in which
they're consuming collectively.
And then how do you scale this vertically?
As in,
let's put more money into this machine or
how do you scale these horizontally?
As in, let's replicate these machines.
You don't have to do that.
It's serverless scales infinitely
forever at a cost, it's gonna cost you.
But some of the new features they added,
like I said,
Fluid Compute really reduces the cost,
probably like more than up to 50%.
So scaling that is not something you
have to worry about with Serverless.
But yeah, cost could be a thing
depending on where you deploy.
Speed can be a thing because serverless
has cold start cost and stuff like that.
But I think if you do edge
computing correctly and wisely,
you can offset a lot of that speed cost
and reap the benefits of infinite scale.
Cool, any other questions?
>> Speaker 6: What would be your opinion
deploying Docker containers on Vercel and
maybe have the container of
the database also deploy there so
that you don't have outbound traffic
to another database provider?
You see something for benefit there?
>> Scott Moss: That's a great question.
So the Docker container to Vercel,
different database.
So Vercel does not support Docker.
Vercel is not a low-level hosting platform
in which you can deploy an image,
it's mostly just for application hosting.
It's like you just wanna
deploy an application.
They're assuming everything that you need.
If you need a database that's somewhere
else, if you go spin up Amazon Aurora or
something, you wanna use that in Vercel,
you can,
it's just an environment variable.
I mean, you'll have to obviously
get the IP address and
allow that to go to your VPC.
But you can let that in and you can use
an environment variable and connect it.
They're not gonna prevent you from using
any resource from anywhere that you
don't wanna use.
But Vercel is for product engineers or
full stack engineers that don't
wanna manage images or
they don't wanna manage Docker.
They don't wanna manage a database.
They just want to get their app hosted.
So they're not gonna support Docker or
you can't deploy a traditional server
to Vercel because they don't have an
environment to run a traditional server.
It's just serverless functions.
So if you want to deploy to Vercel,
you have to deploy it in
a way that makes sense to it.
So Next.js by default
makes sense to Vercel so
they can read the Next.js app and know
that, here are your serverless functions.
If you don't use Next.js, that's fine, but
you still have to configure
your app in a way.
There's a configure a Vercel JSON file
that you'll have to make that says,
here are my serverless routes,
here's where they map to.
You have to do that in order for it to
deploy, otherwise it's not gonna deploy.
So yeah, you couldn't just
take like a Fastify server and
just like throw it on Vercel,
it wouldn't work.
But you can make serverless
routes in Python, right?
You could do that,
they don't have to be in JavaScript.
So yeah, you couldn't do that, but
if you need to get an app deployed,
it's probably the best platform,
I think, out there.